(adventurous music playing)
Sorry to keep you all waiting,
but trust me,
this is gonna be worth it.
We're getting a pool table
in the mess hall.
No.
We've been assigned to pick up
Vice Admiral Christie
from Outpost 35,
and then transport him to
rendezvous with a Krill vessel.
Once there, the Admiral
will begin negotiations
to allow Union access
to the Naklav Sector.
That's on the other side
of Krill space.
Correct. Union ships have
never had a conduit.
Until now.
Early indications are that,
with treaty negotiations
going smoothly,
the Krill may be willing to
permit passage, which means...
entire regions of
unexplored space
are gonna be wide open.
Does he believe we
can trust them?
That's the word. Christie's
one of the top Union diplomats.
He was the guy who negotiated
the Din'jon Accords.
So, if this all goes through,
will we be able to get in on it?
Well, we were the ones who
shepherded the Lock Vai pact,
and we are an
exploration vessel,
so I would say our odds
are pretty good.
Doctor.
You okay?
O-oh, uh, I'm fine.
I just didn't sleep well
last night.
Any questions?
Gordon, set a course.
Aye, sir.
(adventurous music playing)
ADMIRAL CHRISTIE:
Dr. Finn?
Admiral.
Whoa, at ease.
What's with the formality?
Standing at attention in the
presence of an admiral,
is Protocol 101.
Well, can I come in, or do I
need to make an appointment?
No appointment necessary.
It's been a long time.
It really has.
It's amazing to see you.
And this... your own sickbay.
I always knew
you'd be successful,
but Chief Medical Officer
on a Union starship?
Boy, you must've had
some top-notch professors.
One or two.
Well, this one is
very proud of you.
Thank you, sir.
Please, it's Paul.
Admiral Paul.
Well, I'm as shocked
about that as you are.
Oh, I'm not shocked at all.
You always had the heart
of an explorer.
It was only a matter of time
before you left the university
for the universe.
Well, most of my time now
is spent behind a desk,
so whenever a mission like this
comes along,
I jump at the chance.
And I must admit, seeing your
name on the crew manifest,
gave me a little
extra incentive.
Well, you look healthy.
Time's been good to you.
Maybe on the outside.
But you know what they say:
unmarried men look younger,
feel older.
You're as beautiful as ever.
Save your charm for the Krill.
-You're gonna need it.
-(Christie chuckles)
Speaking of which,
I'm scheduled to
brief your Captain
on tomorrow's negotiations.
How about we get some
dinner afterward?
Got a lot of years to
catch up on.
Actually, I promised my kids
I'd stay home tonight,
and watch a movie with them.
You, uh...
y-you have kids?
Two boys.
Um...
I'd love to meet them.
Maybe it's best if we just stay
focused on the job at hand.
There's a lot at stake here,
and I don't think either of us
need any distractions.
Right. I didn't mean to push.
I was just excited to
see you again.
Um...
for what it's worth...
it may be 25 years
too late, but...
I'm sorry.
I don't want to keep you
from your briefing.
Right. No distractions.
(theme song playing)
(dramatic music playing)
(indistinct chatter)
(soft jazz playing)
I fail to see the purpose
of this gathering.
Well, diplomatic receptions
are an old Earth custom.
Think of it as a way for us to
get to know each other,
before the real work begins.
I think I speak for everyone
here when I say
we very much hope
that this temporary alliance
will become permanent.
Do not "hope" too fervently.
Once the Kaylon are crushed,
the alliance will be dissolved.
Only then will we celebrate.
Well, still...
(utensil tapping glass)
Ladies and gentlemen, a toast.
(music stops)
It's not every day one gets a
chance to be part of history.
But tonight, history is
being made in this room.
As we prepare to begin an epic
journey into unexplored realms,
we also take the next step
toward healing the wounds
of the past,
and forging a new path
toward lasting friendship.
Here's to a better future.
(soft jazz playing)
Hey. I'm gonna take this bottle
somewhere else.
You wanna join me?
God, yes.
Can you handle this alone?
I'll owe you one.
Yeah, I'll just stay here
and give myself cirrhosis.
I feel like we should make this
a weekly ritual.
You and me, draining a bottle?
-Why not?
-No argument here.
(chuckles)
You know,
there's a line from a
very old book I once read:
"It is only with greatest care
that memory can be kept from
becoming a prison or a gallows."
I'll go along with that.
You know, I was married once.
-What?
-Mm-hmm.
-You were married?
-Yup.
How come you've never
told me this?
Um, I don't talk about it often.
Who was the guy?
Wait...
-No.
-Yeah.
Admiral Christie?
Are you serious?
You were married to
Admiral Christie?
It was a long time ago.
I was a medical student
at Union Point.
He was one of my professors.
We started seeing each other at
the beginning of my final year.
Kept it a secret
until I graduated.
And then, six months later,
we got married.
The official story was that we'd
only been together a short time,
and then rushed to the altar,
but, I don't think
anyone was fooled.
Never in a billion years
would I have pegged you
as someone who'd
hook up with your professor.
Everything forbidden is sweet.
So, what happened?
Long story short: I don't think
he really wanted a wife.
He wanted someone
young and smiling
to come home to at
the end of the night
after a long day's work.
Which was sort of how it was
when I was still in school,
but once the ranks were dropped,
I was looking for a partner.
He was looking for a bed-warmer.
I gave him an ultimatum, and...
he walked away.
Were you devastated?
At the time, I was crushed,
yeah.
I questioned everything
about myself.
Every way I turned it over
in my head,
I kept feeling like
I was the one at fault,
like I made a huge mistake.
But, when I remember it now,
it's like...
I'm watching
someone else's daughter.
I'm sad for her, but I know she
needs to learn her own lessons.
It must've been really hard
seeing him again.
Oh, in a weird way,
I think it was harder for him.
Well, yeah, I get that.
The pain can be worse when
you're the one ending things.
Personally, I'd always rather be
dumped than be the dumper.
Same.
Anyway, different lifetime.
On to the future.
Well, maybe one of
the Krill is single.
(laughs) That's a thought.
And, hey, there's two of them.
(laughing)
I can't date anyone who dresses
more glam than I do.
Okay, fair enough.
(Kelly laughs)
We have considered your request
for passage through
our territory,
and we are prepared to grant it.
But, there are
certain conditions.
We're listening.
There is an uninhabited planet
in Union space,
that is rich in harcarium.
We use it in our
propulsion systems.
We wish to secure
extraction rights.
Where?
The third planet in
the Obrall system.
Well, I think that
can be arranged.
I'll need to get approval from
the Union Council, of course.
Passage will be allowed
for one vessel alone.
If there are no...
incidents, we will consider
further allowances.
Well, I don't think anyone here
would object
to getting the first solo crack
at unexplored space.
No, sir, we would not.
While in our space, your vessel
will follow this course
to the Naklav Sector.
Any deviation will be
forbidden to you.
Not exactly the quickest way
to get there,
but it shouldn't be a problem.
Anything else?
Upon entry into our territory,
a tracking beacon will be
installed on your ship,
so we can monitor
your coordinates at all times.
That would be a violation
of our security protocols.
I think it's all right,
Commander.
We really don't have
anything to hide.
Captain?
I'm sure we can find
a way to accommodate.
We have little to no information
about the regions
beyond your space
that we intend to explore.
Anything your cartographers
could share with us
would be greatly appreciated,
especially concerning
the Kalarr Expanse.
You...
do not intend to
enter the Expanse?
Why wouldn't we?
It is a domain of evil.
What do you mean?
Demons dwell within the Expanse.
Could you be a
little more specific?
The Anhkana warns of
Shadow Realms.
Gateways to the depths of
the underworld,
where demons lie in wait
to possess the souls of
those who dare
to stray within their reach.
They corrupt all that is holy.
Within their grasp,
even the most righteous
can be forced to commit
unspeakable acts of depravity.
Do you have any direct evidence
that these "demons"
really exist?
It is written in the Anhkana.
That is all the evidence
we need.
We appreciate the warning,
and we'll take every precaution,
but that area covers
more than half the sector.
We are explorers.
So, if it's all the same to you,
we'd like to see for ourselves
what's out there.
We will not stop you.
But, do not expect us
to save you.
Consul, Ambassador.
We wish you safe travels,
and we want to thank you again
for your generosity.
I know I speak for
the entire Union
when I say there is
no greater gift
than the promise of
new knowledge.
Sala tallo ka vaspa ko loy.
What does that mean?
It is a prayer.
For those who are about to die.
(gears whirring)
(power humming)
The question is, do we take
their warning seriously?
Tom, you're kidding, right?
I mean, consider the source.
HALSEY: I'm just suggesting the
possibility that their claim,
absurd though it may be,
could indicate the presence
of some real threat.
And because they're Krill,
they process it through the
lens of their religion.
Which still doesn't give us
much of a road map.
I mean, their religion is...
confusing, to say the least.
All religions are confusing.
How do you think the priests
stay in business?
Did they offer any concrete
evidence
to support their claims?
No. In fact, from what
we gather,
none of their ships have
ventured into the Expanse
in more than a century.
The copy of the Anhkana
we have in our database
has a few passages about
"Shadow Realms."
Lots of colorful language
about soul-sucking demons
with eight eyes and huge fangs.
Horror movie stuff.
And if this were a
horror movie,
I'd say don't go
into the house.
But, obviously their religion
has a powerful influence
over their perception
of reality.
Agreed. But it should not stand
in the way of Union exploration.
We need to seize the opportunity
while we can.
Ed? What do you think?
Well, visions of horror always
have mortal origins.
If there is something out there,
it's not supernatural.
Could still be dangerous.
Exploration always carries risk.
I say we risk it.
HALSEY:
Very well.
I look forward to your reports.
(romantic piano music playing)
Hello there.
Hi.
Uh...
I hear congratulations
are in order.
Word travels fast
on this ship, huh?
May I sit?
Cozy place.
I come here to work whenever
I get tired of the office,
or when my kids are
driving me crazy.
(chuckles)
You know what it reminds me of,
that little bistro we used to
go to on King Street.
What was it called?
-Cafe Noir.
-Yes.
Some fun times there.
So, when do you leave
for Outpost 55?
I'm not leaving.
I'm coming with you to explore
the Naklav Sector.
Isn't that a little unusual
for an admiral?
Oh, yeah. They love keeping us
behind desks,
but, um, this is too big
to pass up.
I hope your decision didn't
have anything to do with me.
No.
Not entirely.
But... you have been
on my mind recently.
Is that...
I take it with me
whenever I travel.
Brings me good luck.
DR. CLAIRE FINN:
You kept it all these years...?
Selayan sunstone...
not the kind of thing
you just toss away.
It's too rare, it's too special.
Do you still have yours?
Paul, uh...
I'm happy to talk about
the mission with you, but I...
I don't want to dredge up
any more of this.
The hurt ran really deep for me,
and I had to work
very hard to dig it all out.
But there's no...
vestige, no small wisp of
feeling still there?
I'm sorry.
Just for luck then, okay?
(intense music playing)
All departments
report ready, sir.
The Krill have given us final
clearance. We're good to go.
Okay. Gordon--
Aren't you forgetting something?
Right.
I d-- I didn't prepare anything.
What's-a-matter?
It's traditional for the Captain
to give a ship-wide announcement
at the beginning
of a new voyage,
you know, like
a little pep talk.
I was gonna write something
last night,
but I-I was just too wiped.
Just speak from your heart.
That's all the crew wants.
All hands, this is the Captain.
We're about to enter
unexplored space.
I know you're all just as
excited as I am,
and I know you're all
going to do your best, so...
let's give this
everything we got,
and...
may the force be with you.
-How was that?
-Perfect.
Set course and engage
quantum drive.
Isaac?
ISAAC:
That is correct.
We haven't been formally
introduced.
I'm Admiral Christie.
I am pleased to meet you,
Admiral.
Am I interrupting anything
important?
Yes.
Oh.
I am upgrading the
scanner array for our journey.
Well, I won't take too much
of your time.
I must admit I was a little
dubious about meeting you.
A Kaylon serving on
a Union ship.
After what happened.
But, I read the after-action
battle report.
I see that you saved a lot of
lives. I commend you for that.
Thank you, sir.
I was wondering if I could
ask you a few questions.
The entirety of my
official report
is available in the
ship's computer.
No, not about the battle.
About Dr. Finn.
I've heard from a few folks
on board that you two were...
involved.
That is accurate.
Well, you know, I was with
Claire, too, a long time ago.
Then we share a
common experience.
After all this time...
she's moved on,
but I'm afraid that I haven't.
I hope you don't mind me
telling you this.
No, sir.
I have observed many such
paradoxes
in human relationships.
Well, to be blunt...
I was hoping you could give me
some insight
into what makes Claire
happy these days.
Dr. Finn values her children
above all else.
She has often stated
that she would
sacrifice her own life
for them.
Oh.
Go on.
Her career as a
Union medical officer
is also a crucial part
of her identity.
She is highly empathetic,
and takes great satisfaction
in helping others.
She always has.
Her recreational interests
include music,
dancing, fine dining,
rain showers and
sexual relations.
Her preferred mating positions
include--
Whoa. Whoa, that's...
plenty helpful, Isaac.
Thank you.
Am I to understand that
you find it...
a challenge to process
her daily absence?
Yes, you could say that.
It is another common experience
we share.
(slight chuckle)
(ship whooshes)
(peaceful music playing)
Passing the outer border
of Krill space.
Folks, welcome to
the Naklav Sector.
First Union ship ever
to come this far.
Check it off the career
bucket list.
Isaac. Analysis of
that star cluster.
ISAAC:
An O-B association,
approximately two million
years old.
78 blue giant stars,
along with several dozen
F, G, and K stars
in later stages of evolution.
Reminds me of Vegas.
Any life signs?
I am detecting 347
habitable planets,
but so far no indications
of intelligent life.
Wow, it really is Vegas.
Captain, I'm picking up what
looks like a distress signal.
Location?
Bearing zero-zero-one
mark twelve.
Distance: 16.4 light-years.
That is inside the
Kalarr Expanse.
I'm assuming it's no one
we know.
Negative, sir.
What about long-range scans?
ISAAC: The Expanse appears to
be almost entirely empty space.
But there is one star system
approximately 30.6 light-years
from the coordinates
of the distress signal.
Afraid to go in?
Burke, set a course.
Aye, sir.
(power sparking)
(whooshing)
LT. GORDON MALLOY: Approaching
the edge of the Expanse.
There are no stars.
How far does it extend?
ISAAC: Scans indicate
at least 800 parsecs.
Take us in.
Entering haunted house.
We're approaching
the coordinates.
What the hell is that?
(ominous music playing)
I am detecting no
propulsion systems,
and only minimal power.
It appears to be
a space station.
Send a hail.
No response.
Maybe whoever it is can't
respond. They could be injured.
ISAAC:
The interior is pressurized,
and there is a
breathable atmosphere.
Admiral, what do you say?
I wouldn't miss it for anything.
Talla, you're with Kelly and I.
Bortus, you have the comm.
Tell Dr. Finn and Chief Lamarr
to meet us in the shuttle bay.
Aye, sir.
♪♪
Anything resembling
a docking port?
There's a large module toward
the middle of the structure,
seems to be mostly empty.
Could be a shuttle bay.
Take us in closer.
(gears clang)
Looks like they know
we're coming.
Ahead slow.
Really?
Either that or we turn around.
(ominous music playing)
(portal clanging)
Look at the walls.
John?
It's an alloy of some kind,
but it doesn't match
anything on record.
It's almost like it's organic.
Let's keep moving.
-Life signs?
-Nothing.
All right, fan out,
but don't go far.
Let's search the immediate area.
Better not touch anything.
Sorry.
I think I found the source
of the distress signal.
Some kind of automated beacon.
Maybe they got the help
they needed,
and forgot to turn it off.
Maybe.
Captain, look at this.
There's energy flowing
through them.
Could be some kind of
power relays.
(object crinkling)
-(hisses)
-Whoa.
-What happened?
-I don't know. It moved.
Moved? How?
It, it opened up.
Expanded for a moment.
Might be safer to analyze the
data we have,
before we go any further.
Mercer to Grayson. Doesn't
look like anybody's here.
Let's head back to the shuttle.
KELLY GRAYSON:
Acknowledged.
Isaac and I have gone through
these readings a dozen times.
All we can tell you is that the
station is made out of some kind
of highly advanced
bio-technology.
How it works or why it's there,
you got me.
Do you think it's abandoned?
ISAAC:
According to scans,
there are no lifeforms
currently on board.
Well, at least not life
as we know it.
What do you mean?
It's possible there are
some lifeforms
that are so different, our scans
can't even recognize them.
It's a valid point.
One of the fundamental questions
in astrobiology is:
what comprises life?
For all we know, the
outpost itself is a lifeform.
Sounds like kind of a stretch.
There are creatures on
Talarius Seven
that look like rocks.
However, they are
living organisms.
So, what do we do?
CHRISTIE: We'll continue to
explore the region.
If we get lucky, maybe we find
something or someone
who can shed some light on--
(groans)
Admiral? What's wrong?
-(Christie shrieking)
-Paul!
He's having some kind
of seizure!
Help me turn him over!
Oh, my God...
(Christie groaning)
(contemplative music playing)
Twenty milligrams of diomine.
(breathing hoarsely)
All right.
He's stabilized for now.
Doctor, what the hell
is wrong with him?
Something is re-writing his DNA,
and it's happening at
an alarming rate.
This growth contains
photoreceptors
and a retinal nerve.
It's almost like
it's a partially formed eye.
Can you reverse it?
I may be able to slow it down,
but I don't know if
I can stop it.
Whatever happened to him
over there,
it's something our
bioscanners missed.
I need more information,
and I need it now.
(portal clanging)
This is it.
Anything?
Some micro-particulates
of some kind...
JOHN LAMARR:
Lamarr to Captain.
Go ahead.
LAMARR: There's something
going on over here.
ED MERCER:
What is it?
The distress beacon we found,
is broadcasting a new signal.
LT. TALLA KEYALI:
What kind of signal?
The coordinates of this outpost.
Let's get back to the ship.
(monitors beeping)
(Christie breathing hoarsely)
Doctor.
Claire...
Take it easy, Paul.
You're in sickbay.
What's happening to me?
You were exposed to something
on the station.
We're trying to figure it out.
I feel so strange.
Are you in pain?
No, I...
I'm just...
scared.
Nurse, would you give us
a moment?
Of course.
Paul. I'm gonna find out
what's causing this.
And I'll make a deal with you.
You get better,
and I'll make you some of that
chocolate soufflé
you used to love.
(chuckles) Oh.
I hated that soufflé.
(laughs) You did?
(chuckles) Yeah.
Well, you used to eat it
all the time.
You were so proud of it, I...
I didn't have the heart
to tell you.
It tasted like dried leaves.
Well then, either you
get better,
or I'll serve it to you for
breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
The ring.
It's in my pocket.
If I die, I want it with me.
You're not going to die, Paul.
Please!
Thank you...
I'm going to save you.
I promise.
MERCER: Shuttle to Dr. Finn.
We found something.
(gears clang)
We'll need your eyes on this,
but it looks like the Admiral
was exposed
to a bacterial spore
of some kind.
Doesn't match anything
in our database.
KEYALI: We're bringing it to you
for analysis.
Recommend decontamination
upon arrival, just to be safe.
Acknowledged.
Paul?!
Finn to bridge.
Admiral Christie is gone.
What do you mean gone?
DR. FINN:
I mean he's not in sickbay.
Bortus, alert security.
(console buzzing)
Commander,
someone is accessing main power.
-Who?
-BORTUS: Unknown.
They are initializing
a dampening field.
-Override!
-BORTUS: I cannot.
They are using
level 9 command codes.
The Admiral?
I am locked out!
(electronic chirping, rattling)
Captain. Look.
(circuits clanging)
Bridge to Engineering.
ISAAC: All systems are
inoperative, Commander.
Engines, too. You can hear it.
Can you tap into
auxiliary power?
Not from the bridge. I will need
to go to Engineering.
Isaac, go with him.
It's no use.
We've lost main power.
I'm gonna go check on my kids.
Keep an eye on sickbay.
NURSE:
Yes, Doctor.
Doctor?
(thudding noise)
Hello?
(ominous music playing )
Doctor?
(thud)
(hissing)
MERCER: Mercer to Orville.
Mercer to Orville.
Kelly, can you hear me?
She can't. Looks like
all systems are offline.
There's a ship-wide
dampening field in use.
What's causing it?
No idea, but once
we're on board,
comscanners and weapons
are gonna be useless.
We're gonna have to
dock manually.
♪♪
(energy pulsing)
(lever rattles, clangs)
(hydraulics hiss)
(suspenseful music playing)
I'm gonna go to Engineering,
see what I can find out.
All right, be careful.
(suspenseful music playing)
Boys? Are you here?
Ty?
Marcus?
MARCUS: Mom!
Mom!
We should go back.
Mom always says if there's
an emergency,
we should wait in our quarters.
Look, I don't want to sit
in my room
starin' out the window
at all that darkness.
Gives me the creeps.
Come on, we gotta find her.
(dramatic flourish plays)
(sighs)
You got that power cell out yet?
No. They really
jam these things in here.
-Try twisting it.
-I did.
Well, usually if it doesn't
pop right out,
it means you're doing it wrong.
Thanks, you're a huge help.
Kelly, what's going on?
Somebody's shut down all power.
We think it may have been
Admiral Christie.
Commander, there's
something else.
That outpost is transmitting
a homing signal.
To where?
We don't know.
It's a wide-range broadcast.
I don't like the sound of that.
What are you doing?
Trying to pull the power cell,
so we can check
internal scanners.
Won't budge.
Well, if it doesn't
pop right out,
it means you're doing it wrong.
What?
I'm pretty sure I can restore
auxiliary power
if I can find the source
of the dampening field.
How can we accomplish that
without internal scans?
I'll use the only scanners I
got right now: my eyes.
It's gotta be in one of the
engineering conduits,
I just need to find it.
There are 132 engineering
conduits on this ship.
Then I'd better get started.
ISAAC:
I will assist you, Commander.
Can you notify the bridge?
TY: Mom!
MARCUS: Mom!
Maybe she went home.
I'm going back to our quarters.
Fine.
Come with me?
I already told you that
I'm not--
(soft rumbling, snarling)
(suspenseful music playing)
(creature snarls)
(roars)
(creature shrieking)
(snarling)
-What is that thing?
-I don't know.
Marcus! What are you
doing back here?
-Did you see it?!
-See what?
The monster!
I don't know what you guys mean,
but there's no one else here.
Come on out.
Come on.
There's something else here.
We both saw it.
What did it look like?
I don't know... like a spider.
But big, like as big as you.
Well, there's nothing here now.
Why did the lights go off?
We're working on
figuring that out.
Can you help us find our mom?
Of course.
You guys stick with me,
and we'll look for her together.
(creature snarling softly)
(growling)
(screaming)
(roaring)
(intense music playing)
-(boys scream)
-Oh, Ty! Marcus!
-Mom!
-Oh, thank God.
Are you okay?
What did we talk about
when there's an emergency?
You're supposed to wait
in our quarters!
-But there's a monster!
-What?
There's something on board.
Some kind of creature.
It got Lieutenant Woodson.
We have to hide!
Let's get to the bridge.
(suspenseful music playing)
And then what happened?
It sprayed him with something.
And that's when he
started to change.
Can you describe it?
His face...
There were big black shiny eyes.
And his skin was...
it was like it went all rotten.
That sounds like what happened
to Admiral Christie.
-Demonic possession.
-Huh?
The Krill warned us that this
part of space
was inhabited by...
demons who would
take possession of your soul.
Something like this--
it's exactly how they
would interpret it.
The microbes that Paul
was exposed to on that outpost
almost immediately started
rewriting his DNA,
turning his cells into...
Another species.
When the Admiral
escaped sickbay,
his transmutation
was accelerating.
He must have infected others.
What Marcus described
is most likely
a more potent version
of the microbes.
Reproduction.
That's my guess.
It may be that their, uh,
natural means of procreation
is to hijack the bodies
of other lifeforms.
Like a parasite,
only much more aggressive.
Then the distress call
we received...
It was a mating call.
Oh, man...
There's no telling how many of
our people have been infected.
We need to contain the spread
as quickly as possible.
Commander Lamarr
was attempting to restore power
from within the
engineering conduits.
He is likely unaware of
the alien threat.
I'll find him.
Isaac, I think
I found something!
ISAAC:
Do you require assistance?
I can't override
the Admiral's command codes,
but I might be able to
rig a workaround,
and get auxiliary power
back online.
Stand by.
(energy pulsing)
Boom. There it is.
(power surging,
circuits clanging)
No communications yet,
but we got life support,
interior illumination,
and backup systems.
Anything more is gonna
take some time.
ISAAC:
I will alert the bridge.
Captain, we have minimal power.
It's about time.
Sir, I have to get to sickbay.
If there's a counteragent,
I need to find it, and fast.
Bortus, go with her.
And see if you can gather
a security detail
to man the perimeter.
Aye, sir.
Stay here, kids.
(metallic clatter)
(hissing)
(roaring, snarling)
(gas hissing)
(distorted voices snarling)
(snarling, shrieking)
-Hey!
-(roars)
Come and get me, assholes!
(footsteps stomping)
(stomping)
-(roars)
-(Keyali grunts)
(roaring, shrieking)
(grunts)
(roaring)
(shrieks)
(liquid-like crackling)
(roaring)
(shrieks)
(body crackling)
(shrieking)
(shrieks)
(intense music playing)
(creature roaring)
(snarling)
(creature hissing)
JOHN: Hey! Can anybody hear me?!
I need help!
Hey, somebody!
Oh, Isaac! Thank God.
You gotta get me outta here!
ISAAC: Commander,
why are you in the brig?
Just get me out of here,
we gotta get to the bridge!
Come on!
Okay, boom.
Communications are back online.
I had to divert power
from life support,
so nobody breathe too heavy.
Mercer to Finn.
Finn here, Captain.
I'm in sickbay.
Were you able to find anything?
DR. FINN:
It's slow going here, sir.
At least until you can get
full power back up and running.
GRAYSON:
We're working on it.
Is there any other way
we can help?
Not unless you can get one of
those creatures
to agree to a physical.
Hi, doc. I thought you
could use this.
Scratch that, Captain.
We have a patient.
Sir. Long-range scanners
are detecting a vessel.
Ten million kilometers
and closing.
Let's see it.
Magnify.
Oh, boy, that can't be
good news.
John, how soon
will we have quantum drive?
Not soon enough.
DR. FINN:
There's no recognizable DNA.
Whoever this is, his genome
has been completely transformed.
I can't even tell
what species he was.
Is there anything you can do?
If there was a fragment of his
original genetic template,
maybe...
I'll assemble a security detail.
We'll go after them one by one
if that's what it takes.
Whoa, wait a minute.
I'm reading white blood cells.
He was human.
The cell count is low.
Really low.
What does that mean?
It means the
transformative process
takes an enormous toll
on the body.
Based on the scan, it must be
at least a couple of weeks
before their immune systems
are back up to full strength.
Then they have a weakness.
I could create a
synthetic virus.
It wouldn't have to be any
stronger than the common cold,
and it'd probably be
fatal to them.
We could disperse it
in aerosolized form
throughout the ship.
They'd have no immunity.
What about us?
You might get the sniffles.
I am prepared.
Claire, even if this works...
these are our shipmates
we're talking about.
They didn't ask for what
happened to them.
Are they still our shipmates?
You heard her.
They're a completely
different species now.
We don't even know if there's
anything left of what they were.
More importantly, it's us
versus them. I vote for us.
If there was some way
we could communicate with them,
to give them a warning.
A chance to leave peacefully.
Maybe there's a way.
Scan the ship for
Selayan sunstone.
-What for?
-Just do it, please.
It's a rare mineral.
Our...
wedding rings were
made from it.
Paul was wearing his.
If he still has it,
we may be able to locate him.
And then what?
If any small part of him
still exists...
maybe I can reach him.
MERCER:
Doctor, you can't be serious.
If he comes after you,
-there's no way--
-I know. I know the risks.
Please, Captain. I need to try.
I found a trace of something
that could be sunstone.
It's in Engineering.
(suspenseful music playing)
(roaring)
(hissing)
(creature yelping)
Paul?
It's me, Claire.
I have to talk to you.
You need to hear what
I have to say.
Your life depends on it.
-(ship rattling)
-(scurrying, soft snarling)
We've found a weakness
in your biology.
I've created a virus.
You won't survive, any of you.
We're prepared to use it,
if you don't leave
the Orville immediately.
There's a ship headed our way.
We know it's one of yours.
Take your people and go.
(quiet snarling)
(loud, unsteady breathing)
Paul...
If any small part of you
is still in there...
I want you to try to remember...
when we were together.
Remember how stubborn I was?
Well, that hasn't changed.
Take your people and go...
or I swear we'll destroy
every last one of you.
(gruffly): Not Paul.
More.
You... will... see.
See what?
You will be...
of us.
Finn to bridge.
MERCER:
Mercer here.
DR. FINN:
Prepare to release the toxin.
Start with the engineering deck.
MERCER:
Understood.
(creature shrieking)
(electronics buzzing)
(shrieking continues)
(creatures wailing)
(wailing fades)
We go.
Thank you.
Not forever.
(intense music playing)
(feet scampering)
(portals thudding)
(romantic piano music playing)
ISAAC:
Good evening, Dr. Finn.
Isaac.
W-What are you doing here?
I am checking on you.
Excuse me?
I have observed
that when a crew member
aboard the Orville
endures a traumatic occurrence,
other members of their
immediate social construct
inquire how they are doing.
That's true.
How are you doing?
I'm okay.
Very well.
Wait.
I hear the Admiralty's suspended
further exploration of the
Naklav Sector for the moment.
That is correct.
Probably for the best.
I...
wish to offer my condolences
on the loss of your friend.
Well, that's very kind of you.
Paul was a special person.
I'm just glad I got to see him
one last time.
He spoke favorably of you
as well.
You... talked about me?
With Paul?
Our shared history of social
and sexual intimacy with you
provided a common frame
of reference.
(laughs)
Do you know, I have missed you.
Thank you, Doctor.
Do you want to sit down?
(romantic piano music playing)
(theme music playing)
Captioned by Point.360